- [Instructor] We will now take a look at the final step
of loading of the bean definitions into the factory.
Once again back to our original overview,
so we've loaded all of our bean definitions.
Now we're in the post-process bean definition phase.
The BeanFactory post-processors
are a very important set of behaviors that occur,
because all of the processing that occurs here
happens before the objects are instantiated.
Work that is performed here is done
on the entire BeanFactory.
Now that doesn't mean that every bean gets impacted,
but every bean throughout the factory
may have behavior done to it.
At this point we can modify or transform
any bean in the factory prior to its instantiation,
and that's very important.
We actually can change the configuration
at this point when the BeanFactory is being loaded,
because we haven't instantiated everything,
because within Spring everything is a singleton.
One of the most familiar examples of this,
and it's one that we've already used,
is the PropertySourcesPlaceholderConfigurer.
If you remember in our little example application
we loaded a properties file at one point,
and we used that to configure our beans,
and what happened is during this phase of the lifecycle,
our beans were scanned and found to have that annotation
that Spring was looking for, and that syntax that said hey,
this is a value that needs to be loaded
from the environment, that dollar sign curly brace,
and it loaded it and actually changed the configuration
before the class was initialized.
Now, you can extend from the BeanFactoryPostProcessor
if you need to, and this is the first extension point
of the lifecycle, which is it's so important.
You can use this interface to write custom components
to impact the BeanFactory.
So if you have something that you need to do
to every bean, or a subset of beans,
before they're instantiated,
you can use the BeanFactoryPostProcessor to do it.
Now, it's not very common to write your own,
but this is very important to understand,
especially if you're working within the framework,
because you can use this to your advantage.
Now, it is very common to use existing ones
on registering scopes and properties and things like that,
'cause you can create custom scopes,
you can import properties.
So, your use of these is much more common
than your creation of their own,
but there is an interface that you can implement
if you have some use case to do work on the BeanFactory.
Now I want to talk a little bit
about the BeanFactoryPostProcessors,
and using Java configuration to configure them.
Bean definitions for a BeanFactoryPostProcessor
must be static.
By doing so you remove the risk of side effects
of dynamic instances.
So, because static classes have a firm set of behavior
and the way that they're loaded into the class loader,
they reduce the risk of side effects.
So they must be static, and that is for this purpose.
Now, once this phase is completed
we've achieved a certain level
of detail within our lifecycle.
So our BeanFactory is loaded with all of our references.
We're still references here.
The BeanFactory is and all of the beans
are actually at this point configured.
So they are configured from the perspective
of initialization and instantiation.
No further changes will happen to a bean
before it is instantiated.
All system level work is completed in Spring at this point.
Everything else is done on the individual objects
once they are created.
So everything from a system perspective is done,
and everything is loaded and ready for the next phase
when we start iterating over our beans.